---
title: "cast"
bg: '#63BD2F'
color: white
fa-icon: music
---

Alright, you've got a clean copy and are ready to push some schmancy pages for the world to ogle at.

- Edit `_config.yml` to change your title, keywords, and description.
- Create a new file in `_posts/` called `2014-01-01-intro.md`
  Edit it, and add:

{% highlight text linenos=table %}
---
title: "home"
bg: white     #defined in _config.yml, can use html color like '#010101'
color: black  #text color
style: center
---

# Example headline!
and so on..
{% endhighlight %}

- Create a second post called `2014-01-02-art.md` with an divider image this time:

{% highlight text linenos=table %}
---
title: "Art"
bg: turquoise  #defined in _config.yml, can use html color like '#0fbfcf'
color: white   #text color
fa-icon: paint-brush
---

#### A new section- oh the humanity!
{% endhighlight %}

**Note:** That part `fa-icon: paint-brush` will use a font-awesome icon of [paint-brush](http://fortawesome.github.io/Font-Awesome/icon/paint-brush/). You can use any icon from this [font-awesome icon directory](http://fortawesome.github.io/Font-Awesome/icons/).

- install Jekyll with `sudo gem install github-pages`
- run `jekyll serve -w`
  - visit [localhost:4000](http://localhost:4000) to see a live locally served preview.
- Push changes and see them live!




## **Changing your colors**
{: style="margin-top:100px;"}

- In each post file you can define `bg: mycolor` and `color: myothercolor` to change the background and text colors for that section.
- **mycolor** can be a quoted html color like `'#0fbfcf'` or a key to a special color defined in **_config.yml** under 'colors'.
  - **Note:** Changes to _config.yml require a manual restart to your local server with `^C` and `jekyll serve -w`.

Nifty, right!



### Also see **README.md** [*on github!*](https://github.com/t413/SinglePaged#usage)
{: style="margin-top:100px;"}


